welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
business
[Music]
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth
show i'm excited to be joined by jason
bay today he's the chief
prospecting officer at blissful
prospecting he helps reps
and sales teams who love landing big
meetings with
prospects but hate not getting responses
to their cold emails
or feeling confident making cold calls
sales is the only adult job he's ever
had he's done everything from selling
house painting services door to door
running outbound call centers to helping
hundreds of reps master
cold outreach jason a very warm welcome
sir how are you doing
i'm excited to be here we've been i've
been looking forward to this for a
couple weeks now
cool man really really excited to chat
to you today and um i believe we're
gonna take a focus
on how everyone tuning in today can
amplify that inbound marketing
with outbound um and i'm sure there's
people tuning in
on either side of the fence something
inbound marketing digital marketing is
the one
others are going to be die hard cold
calling cold email fanatics who think
that is the only way to prospect
generate meetings generate new clients
so it's going to be an exciting topic
today
before we jump into this hot topic my
friend please give us a quick snapshot
and background on your good self jason
um on how you got into sales how you got
into business for anyone that does not
know jason bay
yeah so my first sales job was in 2008
as a freshman in college
and someone came into my classroom and
talked about running a house painting
business to make money over the summer
and i was like you know what i stacked
wood on a cart the summer before
to make about you know five thousand six
thousand us dollars over the summer
which is like a lot you know growing up
in my small town
and i was like you know what the heck
and i didn't realize that it was going
to be a sales job or that i would be
going door-to-door
and doing all that other stuff and i
ended up doing really well
uh closed like over a hundred thousand
dollars worth of paint jobs
uh made twenty seven thousand dollars
for school and i was like
i love sales you know what i mean um
so then i was a sales manager with them
throughout college and
that's where i found i had a really big
passion for training and coaching
you know so this these were college kids
most of them didn't want to be
salespeople as their career so most of
them didn't have any previous sales
experience
so i'd come in and show them everything
from
how to get leads how to hire people to
help them get leads
uh how to do an estimate with a
homeowner and there was like a big
process we taught them around
you know imagine teaching someone how to
build rapport you know you know what i'm
saying it's kind of an interesting
you know how do we build rapport how do
we uh you know handle objections how do
we talk about what we do
how do we take a homeowner around the
house and you know talk to them about
what they need etc um
so i found out i really had a big
passion for training and coaching and
then i ended up working with that
company for six or seven years and spent
three years as their marketing director
so i've got kind of both angles of the
marketing and the selling side
and then right 2013 uh beginning in 2014
i left uh because i wanted to help other
companies
you know with that type of work and we
got started with blissful prospecting
because i saw a big need
uh with people selling b2b with
you know i would find out that through
my prospecting to these companies and
sending cold emails and calling them and
reaching out to them on linkedin they
were like hey could you do that for us
could you help us with that yeah and
that's why we started blissful
prospecting was i saw this big need of
you know just really better frameworks
and systems around how to do outbound
versus just
kind of the spray and pray you know kind
of thing email blasts and
linkedin automation all that stuff how
do we do this in a really good smart
you know sort of way where we prioritize
the customer and then the prospect and
their needs and their problems
and use that as a way to get a meeting
and educate them versus just kind of
spray and pray and mass blast
awesome man love it and good to hear
that you've got some some marketing
experience from it as well
um so obviously being a web choice we we
take quite a big focus on the inbound
marketing the digital side of things but
i've almost worked in all ends of the
spectrum much less yourself been there
cold calling cold outreach
um still do a bit of it now whilst we
obviously tend to work with our clients
i'm only on inbound marketing but
this is this is what i'm excited to chat
about i mean i
really want to get into it should
companies should be businesses be doing
inbound marketing
should they be doing outbound marketing
or as we've said
can we can we amplify our inbound using
outbound and i believe
you've got a framework that you could
share with us to help us
understand it a bit better yeah i mean
let's talk about that the
inbound and outbound portion of this i
most companies and most people i feel
like kind of look at this as like two
divisive things
it's like you either do inbound and
that's your thing and those people hate
doing outbound it's
you basically you know why interrupt
people when you could have people come
knock on your door
is the thinking there right and then
with outbound it's like well why wait
around for people to reach out to you
and you could go proactively reach out
to them
and even though i focus our business on
outbound i still do a lot of marketing
at our business
so i i do all of the marketing and we
generate a ton of inbound
and really if you can get them working
together
outbound works much better when there's
an inbound engine going
when there's good content that addresses
you know the customer's problems that
people can use that to start a
conversation
with when outbound and inbound when
sales and marketing are working together
to really identify
what does the ideal customer look like
and how do we find more of those people
and how do we talk to
their problems challenges how do we
educate them etc
so it's really about making them work
together because they can both
accomplish the same thing
the the thing with inbound if you rely
100 on it and i'm sure you would agree
on this is that
unless you're a huge agency or
huge company that has a tremendous
inbound budget
you're probably not going to get the
attention of all of the really large
companies that you want to work with
so if you want to work with fortune 1000
or any other large mid mid-market or
enterprise companies like they might not
come across your content
so i look at outbound as a way to kind
of put the inbound stuff that you spend
all this money on
and that your marketing team spends so
much time creating this content how can
you put that in front of people
and take an account based approach and
really be proactive about starting
relationships as well
exactly right and and like you say jason
inbound marketing isn't always fast
so unless you've got a ton of budget
that you can suddenly pump into maybe
paid ads
that are directing to specific landing
pages about your offering
or your website to generate a ton of
leads or meetings or sales whatever your
business is geared around
um then it's not gonna be quick and
things like search and optimization
which are a long term strategy
they take time they typically take six
months plus to yield the results so
if you can like say mix the outbound
approach whilst that's going on i guess
to give back what you said
at the start of your piece um i suppose
that
if you've got a a solid inbound
marketing engine and then you're talking
to prospects
outbound and then they come to say your
website or your blog or a piece of
content that you've done as email
marketing
i guess it can build a bit more trust in
it yeah definitely
so like that's the other you know
unanticipated effect i guess that
people don't really think about with
outbound is it's so
much work to get a conversation started
with a prospect
and you know statistically you know 90
plus percent you know i see a lot of
different numbers but one number i see a
lot is 97 98
of the people that you reach out to uh
when you do outbound are probably not
gonna be
in buying mode they're not gonna be
ready to either have a conversation with
you
or to really engage with you in the
sales process so having a great way to
you know nurture those folks with solid
inbound content
i mean that's really the key so the way
that you can make these two work
together
normally i would kind of draw that out
but uh with the
tech that we're using right now i don't
know if that would be easy or not is
what we kind of decided before this yeah
so i'll kind of just if you could
visualize
um so what i would look at is like if
you could visualize
like in the center of a piece of paper
you have
the thing that you are driving so for
most of us that is an intro call
right we want to get a qualified sales
call so we could call these
sales qualified leads right we want to
get an intro call with someone that we
can actually start
and have a sales conversation with so if
you visualize that intro call being in
the very middle
on the left side you have inbound things
that you can use
and on the right side you have outbound
and i'm going to start with the inbound
first
so what you're probably doing with
inbound already is you're creating
content
right so books maybe you have a book
that you've written maybe you got
articles maybe you have podcasts maybe
you pump out webinars and videos and you
got a youtube channel whatever it might
be
you have your content here and then the
other strong
inbound channel um that i really take
advantage of a lot and we're doing it
right now is third party
so how can i that content there how can
i create content
on someone else's platform how can i get
someone else like sam
to get me on their podcast their
webinars how can i get in publications
etc
so this is typically where it stops with
people that do inbound they have this
content
they drive it towards social and that
becomes kind of the driver for the email
list
and the intro calls they have
third-party content and from that
they get you know they promote it on
social they get email subscribers they
get intro calls
and that's typically where it stops so
what you can do to complement that on
the outbound side
is there's three different types of
outbound so you don't always have to do
like pure
cold outreach so the first one and this
is what i do mostly
uh these days is what i call inbound ish
and the reason why i call it inboundish
is that a lot of people say
oh i work inbound leads and i'm like
well who are the people that you're
calling
oh yeah people that sign up for webinars
or download their ebook and i'm like
yeah
i mean those aren't really inbound leads
though
because they didn't sign up and say hey
jason i want a demo i want to talk to
you guys
these people are still not expecting to
get a call from you or get an email
that's
that's still cold outreach right it's
always always a tricky question i find
um especially with things like ebooks
and those kind of lead magnets where
people are signing up they're they're
not really filling in a lot of
information they're just really putting
their email and possibly a name
it i always find it how warm is that
leader i mean that that to me it feels
like it's a lead that really needs to be
nurtured it's just someone at the very
first step of the buying journey i don't
know if you agree jason
yeah absolutely you know and the buyer's
journey is i mean there's a lot of
controversy on
you know the old kind of linear way of
looking at the buyer's journey but i
think for all intents and purposes
it's a it's a good way to look at you
know a person
that might come in that represents a
business could be an influencer it could
be a champion it could be a decision
maker whatever it might be
i like to go with hubspot's very simple
way of looking at it
and it's like you have um an unaware
stage at the beginning where people
don't know about
you know you they don't really know much
about a problem that they might have
um they don't know about the ways they
could fix it and they move into more of
an aware stage
and that aware stage is okay got it i
have a problem we're not generating
enough leads
um i'm gonna get i'm gonna go start
researching like ways that we can fix
this
and that's where you kind of enter a
consideration phase of
okay i'm gonna look for products i'm
gonna look for services people to help
me out with this i'm going to
more clearly define my problem then you
have a decision phase
right where people actually make a
decision on what they're going to do to
fix this problem that's a very
simplified version of the buyer's
journey
and where we tend to focus all of our
outbound effort
uh mistakenly as we start talking about
things to the prospect as if they
already know that they have a problem or
they already know about us or they're
already considering ways to fix it
when we should really be starting on
that unaware and aware stages where we
should focus our messaging
so if we got to backtrack a little bit
we have the intro calls in the middle we
have email list is driving that we have
social that might be driving that
uh on the left side here we have content
and third party
so here's how outbound can kind of mix
into this and give just a bunch of
different examples
so with these inboundish you know
outbound method
you're gonna prospect into people that
are engaging
with your content so if you're using
linkedin this is a really really good
way to
to prospect is you could take that
content that you're spending all that
time creating
and with everything at our company it
starts with a a daily post
that daily post gets put on linkedin
gets put on our website uh we put it in
our newsletter
all kinds of stuff so we're getting a
lot of mileage out of that content when
i post it on social
on linkedin primarily is the tool that
we use i'm going to then see who
interacts with this post
who likes comments on the post etc
that fits our ideal client profile and
i'm going to
proactively reach out to them and invite
them
to check out something for us it's our
content
our reply method guide so i can invite
them
to check out content on our site and
that helps them get on our email list
the other thing that they could do too
is if it's a really a good fit i might
pick up the phone and call those people
or run an outbound sequence
and say hey sam saw that you liked my
post on cold calling really
curious saw that you're a vp of sales
how's cold calling going for your team
right now
and those are such easy conversations to
have because they've already
like engaged with you and it's not like
just pure
pure cold uh yeah they're warmish right
so there's all kinds of ways that if you
think about it
how can i find people that are engaging
with my stuff
whether it be linkedin posts any other
kind of social post how can i find out
companies that are engaging with it
and really use that as a way to start a
conversation and put more content in
front of them
get a conversation started if it makes
sense so that's one type
where if you have a really strong
inbound engine i'll use an example a
company like gong
has a really strong inbound engine right
and they do a lot of outbound on the
inbound activity that they create
so it's pretty cool so that's one type
of outbound
uh below that you have cold like pure
cold outreach
right but you know what helps pure cold
outreach is if that content you're
creating and that third party stuff is
really good
you can use that to start the
conversation on the outbound side
so i can reach out to people in sales
marketing whoever i'm
you know personally selling to and say
hey i don't know if you saw it i did a
webinar with
you know sam and we talked about how to
make inbound and outbound work better
together
here it is check it out i think you'd
really like this little segment here
that would be helpful for you
so that's a form of outbound right i'm
reaching out to these people they've
never heard of me before
and i'm starting those conversations
with really good content
would that be best placed on a cold
email that example jason
yeah so i mean we should definitely talk
about you know sequencing and
and cadences and that sort of thing
because you don't just want to send like
a few cold emails
you really want to think about and look
at you know sales loft uh
outreach vanilla soft apollo all these
great sales engagement tools will tell
you
about the same thing that to get a hold
of someone from an outbound standpoint
you really need to reach out to them
like 10 to 12 touches
you know across two to three channels so
email phone
linkedin uh spread out over 30 to 45
days
you need to have some good content in
there etc but that's kind of the 80 20
of that is like what's
i need a good mix of phone calls and
emails to get these conversations
started
so what i would be thinking about is
really define your ideal client profile
and it's like what are those a
priority folks and you could do that by
starting and just looking at your
current client base
so who are the people that get the most
value out of your
product or service who are the people
you get the most
repeat business from uh who's left you
testimonials that you've created case
studies out of etc who has the highest
average deal size
like who just gets the most value and
what you start looking at is you know
look at patterns in your last 12 months
of clients that you've acquired
and you're going to start finding things
around like their
industry niches within the industry
you're gonna find employee account
department account size you're gonna
find certain things that they are or or
not doing
you know for example you might find
little things like this like when i'm
prospecting what's a really good
indicator for me
in helping a company is if they have
really good inbound content that they're
creating
because i know that their reps if
they're really struggling with
prospecting
and it's be like there's no content on
their website i know that they just
don't have any thought leadership or
anything like thoughtful or intelligent
to share when they're doing outbound
so that's like something i look for so
you're going to find all of these
patterns
okay and then what you're going to do is
like really define like hey what does
that a priority like
best case scenario look like for us
that's a really good fit and you're
going to spend all your effort going
after those and with the rest of them
you don't need to do this type of
outreach with so what i always say is
don't treat prospects equally
so the people that are engaging with
your stuff have a way that you've
determined
to figure out is this a really good fit
for us or not and then we're going to
spend some good effort
going after those folks so cold outreach
a really simple sequence you can use is
over a three week period on a tuesday
you could do something like this it's
called a triple touch
you call the person you email them and
then send an invite on linkedin if
you're not connected
on thursday you send a short follow-up
email and you make a phone call
right so that's five touches week one
you're gonna do the same pattern week
two
week three and let me know sam if you
wanna dig into more of the structure and
content we can do that too
yeah i think so far it's good i think i
love i'm loving the fact that we're
giving um
an overview tangible examples of how
this can actually work and i especially
enjoy the
kind of inboundish example where people
which is something
anyone can get stuck into and start
right now so people are actually
engaging on
the content you're putting out on
linkedin so if you're not putting
content out
on linkedin right now make sure you do
start doing that yeah you're missing out
if you're not doing that right now and
you're in
in b2b for sure for sure man so yeah
if if you're in b2b please do start
putting out content on linkedin and
we've got plenty of guides in the
previous episodes on that
um and then you're saying basically the
people that are engaging with the
content if they're
if they fit your ideal customer profile
then start a conversation with them
really if whether that's a message and
sharing a piece of content that might be
useful for them
or if they if you find that they really
are a good fit giving them a call
and just saying look what what did you
find interesting about this and starting
a conversation on how
or what they're doing that's relevant to
your product or service so i really love
that
and i love the fact that you're talking
about outbound sequences that can be
linked in to again
content that you've utilized um yeah be
good to good to know some some more
examples really jason
on any other ways that outbound and
inbound could be linked together so this
is another really big opportunity that i
see missed
yeah and this is how did we run outbound
to more proactively create collaboration
opportunities
so what i did at the beginning of 2018
is in blissful prospecting we started
out primarily as a done-for-you service
so we would do the prospecting for them
we would run cold email campaigns and
linkedin campaigns
and what i found out doing that the kind
of tl dr there was that
it's one it's really hard um we don't
get as good of results doing it for
people as we do teaching them
how to do it because they know their
prospects better and it's just a more
sustainable business for me personally
to do it that way
so what i made a big focus of at the
beginning of 2018 was how do i
outbound create more collaborations and
referral partnerships
so what did i do i called email just
about every sales podcast that i could
find
over a hundred of them yeah and since
then we've landed 60 70
interviews and now i don't have to be i
don't have to
reach out to people as much to get on
their podcast but if you look at
2018 and all of 2019 and probably the
first couple months of this year
i i basically invited myself on the
sales podcast
and i did that by reaching out and
saying hey i was looking at the content
so if we look at that pillar content
that i talked about the very beginning
if you got some really good stuff like
for me it was for a year all i talked
about was video prospecting and how to
use videos
so i had a pillar piece of content and
all of my conversations were about video
so all the content i was posting was
like how to use video
so that was the thing that i would say
hey let's reach out to podcasts webinars
publications
and i'm going to talk about video
prospecting that was the thing that i
pushed
and that's kind of what i became known
for in 2018
and then i started you know lately we're
talking a lot about cold calling
and also talking about how to make
inbound and outbound work together so
kind of come up with different themes
for like really big pieces of content
that pillar content that you can talk
about
and you can repurpose that in a lot of
different ways but run outbound on
partnership opportunities those
third-party opportunities i talked about
on the very left on the inbound side
run outbound and get a list of every
single podcast webinar publication
influencer anyone that you want to
collaborate with and create content with
and run outbound on that too and then
then it's a cycle that kind of feeds
itself right
you're creating more third-party
opportunities which are going to drive
email subscribers and intro calls but
you're also going to see who engages
with that stuff
and you can do the inboundish stuff we
talked about here on the outbound side
on the right
you can run outbound on that too so
those are the three big pillars that if
you focused on like
so the actionables from this is you
build a list you should have a list
you're working at all times of
the biggest platforms in your industry
that have already gathered your ideal
customers for you
that's the action item here and then
from there start thinking about how you
can offer them value
so i didn't just send emails saying uh
hey sam i'd like to get on your podcast
can we book a time i said hey sam love
your podcast i listened to an actual
episode here's what i liked about it i
also saw an opportunity to talk about
this
topic that i haven't seen you talk about
yet and i think would be really valuable
for your audience here's a few examples
of it
could i send over some topics like so
one of the things that
um our email exchange back and forth
prior to this you're asking me about
topics right
topics things that we could talk about i
know that running because i have a
podcast
and i run webinars the hardest part when
someone reaches out to you is thinking
what the hell do i talk to this person
about that takes time to figure that out
right
so if you can reach out to someone and
suggest topics based on research that
you've done
you're you're you're like making it like
you're pulling out all the heavy lifting
for them you're making it easy for them
to say yes let's
let's let's chat about it and you're
doing that work i don't want to send
sam an email and be like hey sam i want
to get on your podcast and then you have
to go do research on me to figure out
what to talk no i'm going to suggest
some of those things and give you some
examples
exactly no love that man and i love the
the fact that you did that back in 2018
the cold outreach to 100 or so companies
and for anyone tuning in you don't have
to do that necessarily on sale so you
could pick
someone that runs this oh a bunch of
people that run a show
on your sector so let's say you're in
software as a service perhaps you want
to find a bunch of software as a service
crm providers for example or you're in
something completely differently uh
maybe cyber security or something like
that so
go find a bunch of people that are doing
that kind of podcast
and like jason says reach out to them um
with a topic idea
an idea of how you can value what you
can talk to to talk to them about
and generally you'll find that people
are very receptive if you if you offer
something of value and give them
a constructive idea of how you can bring
some useful invite insights to the show
um when you were doing that jason did
you find that
i know you were saying that the content
that came from there could then be
recycled could be then used to build
your outbound did you find that you've
got many inbound opportunities direct
from the
talks that you did on the the various
podcasts of people reaching out to you
saying look jason i heard you on this
show i actually wanted to talk about
this project i had coming up
yeah absolutely we got a lot of inbound
from it um
so i would go in this looking at like
hey what are all the things that would
make this a win
so when you're putting together the list
of people that you want to collaborate
with the companies
i wanted to say hey even if i
collaborated with this person and didn't
get any business from it it would still
be a win
because i would get a good piece of
content and i would get good social
proof
so when you're putting together that
list i think it's like who would be good
to collaborate with social proof wise
uh who could i create good content with
and could i get business from it
i'm thinking like it has to like do one
of those three things for me
ideally all three of those things um so
when i'm going in
one tip that i have is and i'll just use
myself as an example
so i talked a lot about video
prospecting so i'd do an interview like
this and then i would have something at
the end to share
with folks so i'd say hey go to
blissfulprospecting.com
sam i actually have a guide if you want
more information on this
on uh video prospecting right so
they could go afterwards and get like a
guide and like a piece of content they
could get on my email list that way
and like i'm nurturing some of those
folks and i think that's a huge missed
opportunity is to not have something to
send people to
at the end of the show so uh yeah i did
get business from it but if i didn't
um you know it was still good for social
proof
and it was still good to really create
content with those folks and i always
think about on the inbound side how can
i get the most mileage out of everything
that i'm doing
so if i'm going to create a piece of
content how can i repurpose that in as
many different ways as possible
and get as much mileage out of it as i
possibly can and
an article should be repurposed into a
podcast if it was good
there should be a video about it i can
take that content and talk about it on
podcasts and webinars like
really think about mileage it's so hard
to create
good organic like original content get
as much out of that as you possibly can
treat it like a book
you know people don't come out with
books every month and say i need to come
up with something new they come out with
a book
and they promote that book in all kinds
of different mediums and channels they
take little pieces of that book then
they talk about certain topics
like really think mileage and how can i
get as much as possible out of the stuff
that i'm creating
definitely man completely agree and
that's one of the beauties of podcasts
that you can really repurpose into so
many different pieces of content
jason are there any lesser known
strategies be it inbound or outbound
marketing
that people that you think people aren't
tapping up
that perhaps missed opportunities that
people don't think about quite so much
that you've maybe seen results with all
your clients have
i mean these are it right here like
these are the things um
i don't think they're lesser known
though uh i am of the belief i'm not
into growth hacking
or any type of hacking of any type
because i feel like it's really
short-lived and unsustainable
like look at linkedin you know three
years ago
you know several people started posting
these long-form posts and because people
weren't doing that and linkedin wanted
to drive it you would get an insane
amount of
uh you know traffic on those things i
mean people were getting hundreds of
thousands or millions of views on their
posts
and those same posts don't do as well
anymore unless the content's good
so if you build your business around
like how can i hack the thing of the
quarter or of the month or of the year
it's not sustainable for you i think
more about habits
i think that's the most underrated part
you seem like a pretty fit guy
see i'm just looking at you like think
about like fitness right
fitness is all not about it's not about
using steroids and getting in
quick hacks right to get the results
that you want i'm sure you have a very
good set of habits around
how you eat on a regular basis there's
probably consistent workout routines
that you use on a regular basis
and it's about doing those over and over
and over again you start to get a
compound effect
inbound and outbound are exactly the
same i think people are always looking
for
tips and tricks and hacks and templates
and scripts
dude if you just have really good
content that solves
that's helping your customers and
prospects solve a very big problem
something that they're thinking about a
lot and when you go to prospect
you put that content in front of them
and really lead with them
it's those habits of doing it on a
regular basis that's the part i see
missing
people aren't willing to put in the time
over and over and over again and they
lose motivation or whatever it may be
to just be consistent and those are the
companies those are the clients i have
that have the most successes they're not
looking for the tips and tricks they're
looking for
what is the framework that i can apply
to this and then consistently do that
and refine it and make it better over
time and keep
very very consistent love that love that
good good cheeky comparison
for the gym i've actually used that
myself that's one of my favorite
analogies
to compare kind of long-term results
whether it's talking about things like
search engine optimization
or growing your presence on linkedin and
generating inbound opportunities i'd
love to compare it to the gym because
like you said something you have to keep
doing
to see the results um one one last
comment on that because you got
fired up on the gym thing it's like you
know
like think about where most people fail
when it comes to being healthy and they
set these new year's resolutions
and it's like this big moment like oh
i'm to start going to the gym and doing
all this stuff
when it's really the consistency of the
activity that actually gets the result
that you're looking for
you know it's like losing a pound or two
a week if you're trying to lose weight
is much more sustainable than looking
for the thing to lose 15 pounds
we just look at that how many people
have you seen yo-yo back and forth when
they lose a bunch of weight and they
gained it all back because they didn't
build any habits
around what they're doing on a daily
basis so as soon as you can wrap your
head around
there isn't a quick way to do this but
there are
a few things that i can do to on a daily
basis to get good results out of my
content and with my outbound as soon as
you wrap your head around there's no
quick results
and get bought into the activities in
the inputs so james clear
atomic habits talks a lot about the
inputs being more important than
worrying about the outputs the inputs
will drive the outputs
as soon as you wrap your head around and
focus around that mentally and play the
long tail
that's where you're going to start to
have some really good success with this
awesome man um jason i love your your
website in general it's got so much
useful content
and all different forms of content like
you say your podcast your videos
your blogs your newsletter it's all
there it's it's all clear it offers
actual
advice um for people that are looking to
get started on preps
perhaps they're already doing outbound
marketing and they're looking to ramp up
their inbound
how do you how do you manage your time
how do you know where to start
for example is there is there a one one
place that you'd recommend
i.e should we hammer linkedin start
creating content each day or should we
hammer blogs or should we have a podcast
and then recycle that content is there a
starting point that you'd say is this
has worked for me
therefore i recommend this or is it find
what works best for you
yeah i mean this always comes back to
like it's the same framework for inbound
and outbound when i look at content
so like for outbound i look at in three
stages like identify so your ability to
find
good uh companies and then people so
icps and personas
and then in the middle there's your
ability to engage that you're messaging
in sequences and what connects those two
is knowing the problems
right that you solve and then the
engaged part starting the conversation
that leads to the convert part of it the
equation getting a meeting
and between those two the bridge is
knowing you know being able to objection
handle
so the magic with content is like those
in between sections here
what i would actually start doing before
i would hammer down into a channel
is am i actually talking about stuff
that my audience gives a about
hopefully i can use profanity on your
show sam no problem fema
like am i talking about stuff that they
care about what i have done
so much of and i still do it is i talk
to people even that
aren't ready to like have a sales
conversation with me i create a lot of
our content for sales people and sales
teams
i've literally talked to hundreds of
sales reps over the last couple of years
just asking them hey dude can i pick
your brain for 15 minutes i'm trying to
create more useful content in these
areas i want to know what your
challenges are
and that's how people told me you know i
just like when i go to write cold emails
they take a really long time
i don't really have a framework or a
structure for it that i that i feel like
will work
like that's my biggest problem so that's
how i came up with the reply method was
hey what i heard from everyone is that
they needed a structure for cold emails
and that it was taking them too long so
now i have a good piece of pillar
content that reply method it's a it's a
whole big guide
that i can take bits and pieces of that
and talk about it on linkedin
and other forms so i would really get
focused on like what are the
two or three really big problems that
the people you work with have
and get the language that they talk
about them and then you can start
creating content and what you'll start
doing is creating content people be like
oh wow that's interesting i've been
thinking about that problem
so that's where i would start in terms
of the channels i find that that
like where you could start is with like
a blog post or article or some sort of
long form written guide you're gonna get
some seo benefits out of that but
have one or two big pieces of pillar
content or guides on your website
and then use that and repurpose that and
that's the part that's gonna take that
yeah that's the trickier part is
figuring out like where the best medium
is for you
but if you're in b2b you need to be
having articles you should have a
podcast
at this point right um you should be
posting content on linkedin and kind of
repurposing those things like
i would at least think about the minimum
you know amount of things that you
should be doing
um in that regard so in terms of where
you need to double down i would that's
another question you can ask people
where do you like consuming this content
do you listen to podcasts
do you watch webinars are you on
linkedin consuming this stuff do you
prefer to read
articles you know what publications do
you you check out
so i think a lot of it is starting with
the people like have actual
people literally people that you create
your content for
because if they're having that same
problem there's going to be hundreds or
thousands
of other people exactly like them having
the same same issues that they want to
get help figuring out that's one of the
best tips we've had on here in terms of
creating content because you're
literally talking to the people that are
going to consume it
and then like you say a long form or
pillar piece of content that can then be
reused for various mediums various
channels
that's just going to serve you a whole
bunch of good because you can repurpose
it so much and get so much bang for your
buck
dude you're going to build raving fans
that way too because people
like i have people that i just have
known over the last couple years that i
created the content for them
you know what i mean and like they love
they want to share that like
it makes them feel really good that i
created something specifically for them
that was like totally free you know
so like really coming with that mindset
of like
hey i'm in this for the long run i need
to really figure out like what their
problems are and what they need help
with and this allows you to build
relationships with people too
yeah i'm a really big fan of kevin kelly
talks about a thousand true fans tim
ferriss has talked about that a lot
but if you can find a thousand people
that like really love your stuff like
you're gonna have
you're gonna have a really good business
because those thousand people are gonna
share it with other people
and what i would suggest is like find
the first hundred
spend uh you know three six months
finding a hundred people that fit your
ideal client profile that you can start
creating content for
and you're gonna get sales calls out of
that by the way when you do it
but find those people build those
relationships i think that i'm not the
first person to say this
but being on the marketing end i think
what we tend to do is not
have conversations with customers
because we're not client facing
we're not in sales no if you're creating
marketing content you should absolutely
be talking to those people you should be
talking to your sales people
hey what problems are you hearing people
talk about where are you getting hung up
on objections why are people choosing
not to do business with us like those
are perfect content pieces right there
completely agree man and definitely
something should be happening more often
so marketing talk to sales and vice
versa actually
not really doing the age-old argument of
complaining about leads but actually
understanding what what customers
want what customers problems are what's
happening right now
so like you say the content that gets
created can then be useful
and can serve a purpose and can generate
inbound awesome
jason i've thoroughly enjoyed this
conversation my friend we've covered
some great grounds today so really
appreciate everyone you've been tuning
into sam's business growth show
where we sit down business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and their exclusive tips
and insights to help you skyrocket
yourselves
and skyrocket your business jason i like
to ask everyone that comes on
if you could thank just one person
either dead or a life having a positive
influence on yourself
and your career who would that be and
why oh man what's really timely right
now is eddie van halen
i didn't know him but he uh i started
playing
guitar in seventh grade electric guitar
because of him
uh it might the very first cd my dad
gave me to listen to was the very first
van halen cd
when i was like in seventh grade and i
was just hooked since then
um i've repainted my guitar you know to
look like his um
i had all kinds of stickers i use the
same strings guitar picks
and what's always really inspired me
about him is his creativity
he's really known for saying hey there's
12 no because people ask him what's your
favorite scale
what's your secret with all this stuff
he's like well hey you got 12 notes
use them any way that you want and i
kind of look at marketing and sales like
that where it's like dude
like the bumper guards are really pretty
wide here if we're using bowling as an
analogy
it's really like up to you to kind of
pick your mix
and your flavor and make it your own and
that's kind of what i was alluding to
earlier there's no magic tricks or
you know i just stay away from the
growth hacking type stuff and
his creativity and how original he was
is just so inspiring for me around
content and just like
you know create your own lane you know
if it doesn't exist right now
like do things your own way and add your
own flavor to and that's what people are
really going to be inspired by so
i'd have to give him a shout out awesome
man
jason really appreciate you coming on
dude um yeah
please do tell us a bit more about how
people can connect with you how they can
learn from you
a bit more about your business and the
best way to get in touch
yeah so i would say we just wrapped up
the think outside scripps summer virtual
tour so for
90 days the last 90 days i was doing two
to three webinars per week
and it was all focused on outbound so
prospecting
uh cold calling cold email linkedin
personal branding we had tons of great
guests on there
um that literally wrapped up yesterday
but the replays are still up there's 40
talks that you can get access to
at tour.blissfulprospecting.com it's
free
i would go check it out we're not doing
any more live webinars but there's so
much in
like just insanely good content there on
outbound i would check that out first
and then blissfulprospecting.com is
where you can find out you know if
you're looking for some coaching or
training
you know as an individual or as a
company and you want
you know to get help kind of flexing
this outbound muscle
to help with your inbound um you can
reach out to me there as well and that's
where you can you know kind of find a
hub for all of our stuff
jason thank you so much for coming on
man cool
yeah this is awesome dude thanks for
having me on cheers and if you enjoyed
the show be sure to hit subscribe on
your podcast channel of choice
to sam's business growth show we've got
tons of interviews with business leaders
giving you actual tips each and every
week thank you so much for tuning in
are you tired of constantly hunting for
new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation
via webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts